Another section is hacking data transfer.
Well first, HTTP/3, we have already
mentioned this, but try to enable HTTP/3.
We already mentioned it's the transport
protocol over UDP that will reduce latency
and connection messages.
It's the same HTTP/2, so no different API.
It's not gonna add you a lot of overhead.
So this is roughly how it works.
By the way, it says QUIC,
because QUIC was the,
let's say the draft name of HTTP/3,
but it's HTTP/3.
So on a normal TCP + TLS, so that's HTTPS,
you have all these handshakes,
you need to go back, go back, go back, go.
And, of course, that has a latency.
With HTTP/3, you just go.
Okay, so even it's called, for
the second communication,
there is a zero latency.
Zero RTT, round-trip time.
So on Google, it improved 3%.
On YouTube, it has reduced
the buffering of video by 30%.
And Facebook is using a similar
protocol on their native app.
And it has improved 2% performance.
Just by enabling something
in your server or
using tools such as Cloudflare,
that will do that for you.
I'm saying all the time Cloudflare because
it's the one that has a free tier that
you can apply on free
websites pretty quickly.
If not, there are a lot of other
providers that you have to pay for.
Also, Cloudflare has a premium account,
but
Cloudflare is used a lot on many
websites because it has a free tier.
And according to Google,
75% of requests that are happening
on the web can be optimized
if HTTP/3 is enabled.
>> So the difference between,
what is it, UDP and?
>> TCP.
>> TCP, is with UDP,
it allows you to sort of,
you don't retry any failed packets?
What are the,
I guess I don't quite understand.
Sounds like that would be
a bad thing with web traffic.
>> I know, yeah.
It sounds like that.
For live video, it sounds okay because,
okay, if you have lost some frames,
well, okay, let's move on.
With data, you want all the data.
So it feels dangerous,
you're losing packets.
But actually, HTTP/3 is using UDP and
adding a control thin
layer on top of that.
So HTTP/3 is guaranteeing that
the packets will be received, and
they will retry packets if they are lost.
But it's a thin layer written from
a scratch in the latest five years,
three years actually.
It's not the original TCP protocol that
was written like 30 something years ago.
And they created that thin layer,
that control layer,
specifically targeting
HTTP-based messages,
which means that it's much
more efficient than TCP.
Does it make sense?
So with UDP alone, yeah, we will lose
the quality of the content, right?
But it's not UDP alone.
HTTP/3 uses UDP, but also it has
its own algorithm on top of UDP.
>> Okay, yeah, no, that makes sense.
I can imagine with TCP there
was sort of old spec and
baggage you had to deal with-
>> Something like that.
Yeah, it has to do with that.
>> iiii On top, it works so much faster.
>> Something like that.
>> That makes sense.
>> Okay, use Zopfli.
What's Zopfli?
It can save you data over GZIP.
Remember that we mentioned
that we can use GZIP.
Well, Zopfli, it's a new algorithm.
It's recent over GZIP, okay?
So it's still using
the same ZIP container, but
it's using a different
algorithm to compress the data.
The problem is that 80 times slower for
compression, not for decompression.
So it's more time on your server, not on
users' devices, which is not so bad, okay?
Anyway, I will go really quickly over this
because there is a better one, Brotli.
Brotli is a completely new encoding
format that replaces completely GZIP,
and it can save on text-based
files up to 50% of data.
So if you compress with Brotli,
the amount of data that you
are sending is 20% smaller.
And if that happens, the file will
be on users browsers before and
it will help everyone.
Today, Brotli is compatible
with every browser.
But anyway, if a browser is not supporting
it, the server typically checks
the encoding header and
if it works, it will return Brotli.
I'm not sure if you remember that
before I checked into the headers here.
And there was one header, request header,
that says Accept-Encoding,
gzip, deflate, and br.
Br is Brotli.
In this case, the browser was telling the
server, hey server, I accept Brotli, okay?
So then the server can decide
to return a Brotli-based file.
Brotli, it has the disadvantage
of consuming more CPU as well.
So most of the time you wanna cache it.
That's done by the server.
The server typically caches
the Brotli file of resource.
So it's not compressing the file
on every request, okay?
And LinkedIn has saved 4% in load time.
Facebook savings on CSS and
JavaScript files.
And yeah, that's a lot because we
know that those resources are also
the ones that are blocking rendering or
blocking parsing.
So we wanna get them as soon as
possible on users' browsers.
So just check that you have that enabled.
Again, if you are setting up your own web
server, it's something you need to add.
It's a module in Apache.
It's something you need to enable on IIS,
if you're on the Microsoft side.
And if you're using the Cloud, typically,
it's a setting that you have to enable,
and sometimes it's already enabled if you
are starting now, setting up those things.
So have in mind, and
now we can serve content using Brotli.